Inherited imperfection, we don't like it, but we all have it.
And since imperfection means that everyone is less than perfect, we are bound to be treated
unfairly at times, even by fellow Christians.
In rare cases one might become the victim of slander or even fraud.
Herewith me an account about slander that occurred in the nation of Israel in the days
of King David.
It's about a man named Mithibasheth, who was slandered by a man named Zyba.
Examining the way that Mithibasheth handled this matter can be of real help to us to
so peace and to reap peace.
Jonathan was Mithibasheth's father, and King Saul was his grandfather.
When Jonathan and Saul died, King David gave to Mithibasheth all the land of his grandfather.
David assigned Zyba as a servant to take care of the land that he had given to Mithibasheth.
One time later a rebellion in David's household forced him to flee from Jerusalem, and Zyba went
out to meet David.
When David asked Zyba about Mithibasheth and why he didn't come with Zyba to show his
support for David, Zyba slandered Mithibasheth, saying that he was seeking the kingship for
himself.
He said to say, David believed the slander and gave Mithibasheth's land to Zyba.
Sometime later Mithibasheth met with King David and explained why he didn't show up to
travel with him.
He told David that Zyba had lied about him.
When hearing Mithibasheth's side of the story, David now decided that he and Zyba should
share the land.
Instead of complaining or seeking vengeance, Mithibasheth displayed the spiritual qualities
of a peacemaker, and he was willing to be wronged.
He said to David, as recorded at 2 Samuel, chapter 19, and verse 30, these words,
at this Mithibasheth said to the king, let him take it all, now that my Lord the king has
come to his house in peace.
Yes, Mithibasheth was more concerned about David's kingship than he was about himself.
In the following dramatization, notice how a brother reacts to a perceived injustice,
and thereafter how he soes peace with his brothers.
First time we met David, we were in chains, I'd seen a lot of things during my time as a
guard, but nothing like the peace that you all had.
Prison chains may be strong, but we all had something much stronger.
But we had to work for that peace, right Phil?
That's right.
There was a misunderstanding, that got blown all out of proportion, and I didn't handle it
the best.
The more I tried to defend myself, the worse it became.
Brothers, there must be some mistake.
This isn't true, you know me.
I wasn't prepared for how far I would go.
There's one more announcement.
Because their Philip Kim is no longer serving as an elder.
The next few months were a real struggle, but by more details came to light, I thought
I'd be reappointed.
But I wasn't.
I couldn't understand why.
I felt bitterness growing inside.
Everything became about me, how I felt, what I deserved.
It was like a fog that stopped me from seeing what Jehovah deserved, and I really needed
his help.
I found comfort and accounts of Jehovah's servants were either misunderstood or misjudged,
but maintain their loyalty to him.
They helped me realize that it's a privilege just to be in Jehovah's organization.
Being a peace with my brothers was more important than any appointed position.
Without peace, I don't know how we could have managed what was to come.
Our threat is fat today, and I'll be your secretary, just like Barrick was the Jeremiah.
I don't know what I'd do without you.
The question now for all of us is, how can we imitate the example of Muthybasheth?
First of all, if you are the victim of minor gossip or rude treatment by someone, why
not choose to let it pass and not make a big issue of it?
Isn't that what first Peter 4.8 advises?
First Peter 4.8 reads, above all things have intense love for one another, and then it
tells us what our love can do.
It says, because love covers a multitude of sins.
Yes, love covers sins and imperfections if we are willing to let love have its way.
But what if you are the victim of a more serious injustice?
For example, the brother in the video, he felt that he was a victim of injustice when he
was deleted as an elder.
He tried to clarify matters, but since he didn't get the response he was hoping for, he
became very upset.
He lost his peace, and he caused others to lose their peaceful relationship with him.
To regain his peace, the brother dug into the scriptures, looking for examples he could
benefit from, and he prayerfully looked to Jehovah to help him.
He could see the importance of self-control and being guided by God's spirit.
As a result, he was able to be at peace with himself, and so peace with his brothers.
Now think for a moment about the unfair decision David made when he told Mothibusheth that
he and Zyba were to share the land.
Zyba was the cause of the problem, not Mothibusheth, however Mothibusheth displayed the qualities
of a spiritual man by not looking out for his own interests, by being patient and by
not seeking vengeance.
Read with me at 2 Samuel, chapter 19, verse 25, through verse 28.
2 Samuel 19, 25, through 28.
It reads,
When he came to Jerusalem, that is, Mothibusheth went to Jerusalem to meet the king.
The king said to him, Why did you not go with me Mothibusheth?
For this he said, My Lord the king, my servant tricked me.
For your servant had said, Let me get my donkey saddled so that I may ride on it and go
with the king.
For your servant is crippled.
But he slandered your servant to my Lord the king.
However, my Lord the king is like an angel of the true God, so do whatever seems good
to you.
All the household of my father could have been doomed to death by my Lord the king,
and yet you placed your servant among those eating at your table.
So what right do I have to cry out further to the king?
It's truly remarkable.
Mothibusheth was grateful for what he had, and he was seeking nothing more.
He enjoyed peace of mind and heart.
If a matter involving slander, or fraud arises today, a Christian may choose to follow
Jesus' instructions at Matthew 18, 15 through 17.
However, if for some reason following that procedure does not fully resolve the matter,
he or she may choose to pursue it no further, and suffer loss rather than disturb the peace
of the congregation.
We can leave any unresolved issues with Jehovah, knowing that he sees what we do and what
others do, and he will carry out justice at the right time.
For our own benefit, we really must try to let go of resentment.
When we do, we benefit ourselves.
When we forgive, we forgive others, Jehovah forgives us.
Now that doesn't mean that we minimize or excuse the wrong conduct of fellow believers,
no.
But it does mean that we imitate Mothibusheth by letting go of resentment and pursuing
peace.
We draw closer to Jehovah by following the advice at Psalm 55-22.
Throw your burden on Jehovah, and he will sustain you, never will he allow the righteous
one to fall.
And as Romans 15-13 assures us, Jehovah will fill you with all joy and peace by your
trusting in him.
Brother Joel Dalinger, a helper to the service committee, will now consider the next talk
of this symposium.
How they sowed and reaped peace, Paul and Barnabas.